- [Instructor] Let's get hands on with flux controllers
and CRDs to deploy a containerized application
onto our Kubernetes cluster.
The first thing that we'll need is a source.
A source is a custom resource definition
that points to the location of our systems desired state.
In this case, that's our environment repository
within GitHub that stores our infrastructure code.
Let's navigate over to the terminal
to begin creating our source.
The first thing I want to point out is that all of our work
is going to be performed within the flux configuration
repository.
We're going to use the flux CLI
and it's create source command to build out
the definition of our source.
So here you can see that command
and we're naming our source GitOps Foundations,
and then we're pointing it at the environment repository
over in GitHub by specifying its URL.
We're also instructing the source to look at the main branch
and to pull every 30 seconds.
So, when we issue this command,
it's not going to create the source on the cluster.
It's just going to put the sources definition
into a YAML file.
Let's go ahead and take a peek at that.
And there you can see the definition of our new source.
It's pointing over to that environment repository.
Now, the next thing that we'll need is a customization.
A customization is another custom resource
that's used by flux.
You can think of it as defining what should be sinked
onto our cluster.
Just like a source,
we can use the flux CLI to create a customization.
So here you see the create customization command.
It's naming the customization, GitOps Foundations.
And then it's pointing the customization
to the new GitOps Foundations source that we just created.
So, that's pointing to the environment repository.
And within that repository,
it's looking in the flux directory for our Kubernetes
manifests that it'll deploy onto the cluster.
We've configured the customization to sync every minute.
You'll also notice the prune option.
This is saying that if something is running in our cluster,
but it doesn't exist in our desired state in git,
it should be removed from the cluster.
You'll notice that we're also storing the definition
of our customization in a YAML file.
So let's go ahead, we'll issue the command.
And then we can take a look at that customization.
All right, so there you can see it's YAML definition
and you'll notice it's pointing
to our GitOps Foundations source.
And specifically that flux directory.
All right, so at this point nothing is happening in flux
and that's because flux uses GitOps to manage itself.
So until we commit these YAML definitions
into our GitHub repository, flux will not take any action.
So let's go ahead and start to commit these.
And then once we push them up to GitHub,
they're going to start to take effect.
So I'll just push them up to the origin.
There we can see the changes are there.
And then I'm going to create a watch and we're going to use
the flux git customizations command.
And this is going to look for the operator attempting
to reconcile any customizations that we've created.
So, there you can see that currently it's attempting
to put the GitOps Foundations customization in place.
Okay, it just found our commit.
And it looks like it's reconciled on the cluster.
Let's go ahead and at this point we're going to navigate
to our cluster within Azure and we can take a peak
at the workloads running on the cluster.
Here you can see our GitOps Foundations pods
were put in place.
And then if we take a look at the services,
you'll see that the GitOps Foundations service is there.
So, it appears that our containerized application
is up and running on the cluster in Azure.
Let's go ahead, we'll run one more test here.
I have a new tab.
And within this tab, we're going to use a DNS entry
that we've created in the definition of our service.
Essentially, we're able to assign a DNS label
to the service and it's going to look like this.
It's going to be your Docker Hub ID followed by the region
you're running in, in Azure
and then cloud app.azure.com.
All right, so we should be able to hit our application
through this URL.
All right, and there you can see it's up and running
on Azure.
So using our source and customization,
we were able to provide flux with the resources it needed
to deploy our containerized application.
And from here, it's going to continue to monitor
the desired state and the state of the cluster
and reconcile any drift that might occur.
That's GitOps.